# Movie-Analytics-Country
Analytics Project that uses the imdb_moviedata base from kaggle and analysis movies by country
	For the final project for this course I wanted to look at some movie data and take a holistic Analysis of that data. I used the imdb_moviedata from Kaggle, and at first I did not have a clear outcome of what I wanted to proof. Throughout my analysis I looked at various things such as looking into the actors, countries and avg_vote. For the whole data set the avg_vote come out to be around 5.9, which on the imdb scale is the halfway point. Imdb rates their movies from a 0 to 10 scale. Once I figured out the average vote, I explored more with the data, and recognized that the genre column in the data set has multiple genres. In order to clean the data I made the assumption that the first genre listed is the most important and I cleaned up the rest. Once this was done the data set only showed one genre for each movie. There were other columns in the data set that had the same issue, but I did not clean these up due to timing for the project as well as scope of the project. This potentially could of skewed the data, but the user does not necessarily know which genre is the most important. 

	I also did a fair amount of data cleaning within this project with adding NaN for all missing values, and some of the data had extra String Variables in the Date Published as well as the year of the movie. For example, when I tried to run the vote for USA I ran into an error where I was getting a Value Error String to Int. After reviewing the error it became apparent to me, that the author of the data set added TV Movie 2019 in the year column, and I cleaned up the TV Movie portion from the column and replaced it with only the value 2019. 

	The second step of my analysis was to compare various countries for their average vote. I wanted to see if there were any similarities or differences apparent in the dataset. In order to make this more easily seen, I created a function for decade to group the movies by decade, this ensures easier viewing of the data. I created the decade column and the function to get the first genre for each movie. With the use of a lambda function I was able to create the column for decade. The same procedure I followed for the countries, USA, Italy and Germany. Once the columns where added, I noticed in order to better understand the avg vote, the visualizations would also need the count of movies for each decade based on the genre listed. I created a new column titled movie_counts in order to show this. The movie count column would give a better comparison for each country and avg vote. I added a few different views of the heatmap for the comparison of votes for Germany VS. Italy, and have noticed that most of them are fairly close. Both countries have a minimum of 5.6 to 6.8 avg_votes. 
	I noticed once I ran the heatmap for the avg_vote that there was no data for Germany from the 1950-1990. I assume this could be due to World War 2 and censor ship during that time period. Germany was under some political strains until the end of 1989 when the Berlin Wall came down, and this could attribute to the fact that there is no movie data during those decades. To get a clearer picture of what was happening, I looked at the movie counts per Genre by Decade for the countries of USA, Germany and Italy. Here one can see that Germany already had a short number of movies for all genres in the 1940s and then picked up in the 1990s with 79 movies in comedy as the highest movie count for that decade. The decades after Germany produced even more movies which shows that there most of been no more censoring impacts to the movie industry, or reporting. 

	I then looked at both USA movie counts and Italy movie counts as comparisons. For the US I found that the highest avg rating for movies falls under the Documentary section with a avg_vote of 7.5. It also came apparent that during the World War 2 area there was still lots of substantial data in the 1950 to 1990 which shows that there was no aftermath of World War 2 censor ship happening in the USA. At that point I explored Italy another European country that could have been influenced heavily by World War 2 censorship since it was so closely in location. With the use of a heatmap for the Genre and movies by decade, one can see that this country shows less movie’s being reported within the 1950 and 1960. There is still a lot of data to be seen but there is no influx in data until the 1970 when there were more than 141 movies documented for the genre of Comedy. It is hard to say at this point if this happened due to the involvement with World War 2, and this could be another area that needs to be further explored. At the end of the project, I also added a few other Data plots that shows avg vote for Germany in a line plot which also shows that there were hardly any votes given during that time. The last plot shows a distribution of how many votes are given by avg_vote, and this shows that when votes are given for certain German movies they often do get higher than the average score. 

